Well, this day has arrived for you students.
I see you there smiling
and looking forward to this program.
I’m sure it’s hard for you to believe
that we’ve actually gotten to graduation day.
But we also know that you’re very keen
and enthusiastic to get to your assignments,
whether you’re going back
to where you came from
or you’re going to a new assignment.
Over the last few months,
you’ve learned so much, haven’t you?
You’ve crammed that information
into your mind and heart,
and now you have that ready to implement it
when you go to your assignments.
But we need to be careful
not only to be enthusiastic,
keen, and zealous,
but also we need to be patient.
So we’d like to talk to you
for a few moments about this theme
“Be Enthusiastic but Be Patient” as well.
Why so?
Well, when you go to your assignments
with all this that you’ve learned,
you’re going to be tempted
to try and implement it everywhere.
But remember, you’re not going to change
the whole world in one day
or even the whole branch.
You see,
it’s so easy to become overwhelmed
if we try to take on too much
all at one time.
So that’s why it’s important
to be enthusiastic
but also patient.
Our Lord Jesus Christ
was an excellent example of this.
When Jesus came into the world,
the whole world needed to hear his message.
And yet, he had to wait some 30 years,
growing up according to Jehovah’s timetable,
before he started his ministry.
So that took patience on his part, didn’t it?
But what about when Jesus
started his ministry?
What was his focus?
You can imagine him looking around,
seeing all the things that needed to be done
in the world at that point.
But let’s turn in our Bibles.
If you turn with me, please,
to Matthew chapter 15
—Matthew 15:24,
and here Jesus said to his apostles:
“I was not sent to anyone
except to the lost sheep
of the house of Israel.”
That’s interesting.
Jesus here mentions
he had a specific, limited assignment.
What was the assignment?
To go “to the lost sheep
of the house of Israel.”
Now, if you turn back
just a couple of chapters,
in chapter 10 of Matthew,
you’ll notice in verses 5 and 6
that when Jesus sent out his apostles,
what did he say to them?
“Do not go off into the road of the nations,
“and do not enter any Samaritan city;
“but instead, go continually
to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”
So as Jesus sent out his apostles
in this particular instance,
what was he reminding them of?
He was telling them
that they likewise had a limited assignment,
a specific assignment.
They weren’t supposed to try
and do everything all at once
—to go to the Samaritans and to the Gentiles.
They were to focus
just on “the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”
So when we think about this,
what do we learn from these two verses?
Well, first of all,
yes, the whole world
needed to hear the message.
But what did Jesus do,
and what did he expect of his apostles?
That they would recognize
that they had a specific assignment.
They weren’t to be overwhelmed
by trying to think of changing
the whole world at that point.
Jesus showed great trust in Jehovah.
He knew that Jehovah
would gradually expand the message
and the reach of the message.
And, of course, we realize
that at Pentecost there was an expansion
and then in 36 C.E., another expansion.
So, what does that mean for you?
You see, when you return to your assignment
or you go to the new one,
there’s going to be
an endless number of possibilities
where you can help others
—to stabilize and strengthen everyone.
But if you try to take everything on at once,
you’re going to wear yourself out
and probably wear out
a whole lot of other people as well.
You know the English idiom
“Don’t bite off more than you can chew.”
You see, gradually do the things
that Jehovah has assigned you to do.
If you try to be too broad in what you do,
you may end up not accomplishing much at all
except just wearing yourself out.
But be patient just as Jesus was,
and recognize that each one of you
will have a specific assignment.
And then try to work at that,
trusting that Jehovah will allow
your good example to benefit others,
and gradually the effects of your work
will spread to others.
Now, an example of this is
in the South Pacific,
if I could just tell you about that now.
When missionaries arrived
in the South Pacific—
Let’s take, for example,
you might end up in a country
that has 100 inhabited islands.
Now you’re a new missionary.
I remember the feeling.
And then you find out
there are only ten islands
that have Jehovah’s Witnesses on them
—ten islands that have
publishers and congregations.
So there are 90 that don’t.
So, what do you think
the normal enthusiastic response is?
“Oh, let’s get a boat.
We have to get a boat!
“We must visit all the 90 islands.
Oh, that needs to be done now, immediately!”
Well, usually you’re assigned
to one congregation
in one area.
Now, what’s the point?
What normally happens?
Well, you see, if you were to get a boat
(and there’s nothing wrong
with getting a boat
or visiting other islands)
and if that becomes your focus
and you neglect your assignment,
how can you follow up on all the interest
that you may find on those 90 islands?
It’s not just enough
to go and give them some magazines,
but you need to be there with them,
build them up,
and form congregations.
So normally what happens?
Well, it’s amazing to see
missionaries and others
who work in maybe larger city areas;
they work diligently at their assignments.
But then maybe others from different islands
come to visit that city
the missionaries are in,
and they get contacted.
They show an interest, they start to study,
and they return to their home islands.
And what happens?
Gradually, the work spreads out
to all these islands.
So, what’s the point?
Don’t feel
that you have to take on everything.
Focus as Jesus did
on the limited assignment you have.
But then along the way,
you may be surprised at what happens.
Now, that’s exactly what happened to Jesus.
Let’s go back to Matthew chapter 15.
Remember,
what was the assignment that Jesus had?
In verse 24,
he mentioned “Israel.”
Now, looking at this map, we see at that time
there was actually a border around that area
that we could say was his territory assignment.
But when Jesus said these words,
where was he?
Do you remember?
Let’s look in verse 21:
“Jesus now went into the region
of Tyre and Sidon.”
So when you look at the map,
where was Tyre and Sidon?
What do you notice?
You see, he wasn’t in his territory.
He was out among the Gentiles.
Why?
Well, when we look at the parallel account
that’s mentioned in Mark chapter 7,
it tells us that Jesus wanted
some time alone with his apostles,
some downtime
because there were so many crowds;
they were so busy.
Now, I’m sure all of us
can understand that feeling Jesus had.
So he took them out of that general area
to this territory
that was beyond what he
would normally preach in
to have some quiet time together.
But what happened?
Well, the account tells us
that there was a Syrophoenician woman,
perhaps (as the study notes help us to see)
from a Greek background
as far as her nationality went,
but maybe she was a citizen
or an inhabitant of that area,
the Syrophoenician area.
So this woman approached Jesus,
pleading with him.
Now, she didn’t look like a Jewish person.
She probably didn’t even speak Hebrew.
She certainly wasn’t in the category
of the lost ones of the house of Israel.
So Jesus,
initially when she started
to make these efforts to talk to him,
mentioned this to his apostles in verse 24:
‘That’s our assignment.’
But notice that this was a little different
in the sense that this woman
showed an appreciation for who Jesus was.
Notice in verse 22, she said:
“Have mercy on me, Lord, Son of David.”
Now, here’s a Gentile woman.
Should she really know who David was?
And by saying “Son of David,”
as the study note indicates,
perhaps she was showing faith
in the fact that Jesus is the Messiah.
So she wasn’t
your average Syrophoenician person.
What did Jesus do?
Well, he tested her a little.
He did emphasize
the fact that in a household
you first of all
feed the children, the family,
and then the little dogs get fed afterward.
And perhaps he was playing on words there.
It’s interesting.
We’re not sure
what language Jesus was speaking to her.
The Watchtower  did say that Jesus
perhaps did understand Greek
and use it at times.
Why, his apostles
obviously understood some Greek.
They wrote some of the books of the Bible
in Greek.
But whatever the case,
the record of this is written
—the inspired record—
in Greek,
and it uses this term “little dogs.”
Was that offensive?
No.
As it’s mentioned,
it was an affectionate term
like saying “puppies” or “pets.”
So whatever the case,
he must have looked very friendly,
perhaps had a smile on his face,
because she was not deterred.
What was Jesus’ reaction?
Well, he acknowledged
his territory, his assignment.
But then in verse 28, he said,
“O woman, great is your faith;
let it happen to you as you wish.”
Is this the only time
that Jesus did something like this
for a non-Jewish person?
Remember in John chapter 4,
not only do we have this case
of the Syrophoenician woman,
but in John chapter 4,
we’re told about the Samaritan woman.
This non-Jewish person was witnessed to,
and then even members of her village
accepted Jesus as the Messiah.
And then what about the Roman army officer
that Jesus was able to help?
And Jesus mentioned
that he hadn’t even seen
that type of faith in all of Israel.
So, what lesson do we learn from this?
Well, Jesus focused on his assignment.
He always acknowledged
what he was assigned to do.
But when opportunities came up along the way
to help those
who weren’t necessarily in his assignment,
he still gave them some help
because they were genuine persons
who needed help.
Yes, although Jesus realized
it wasn’t yet the time to expand the work,
he was willing to reach out
to these ones as well.
So, what’s the lesson for all of us?
Well, when you go to your assignments,
you will have specific assignments.
Now, if it’s in a Bethel or in the field,
you’ll know what your assignment is.
So don’t start looking
at all the other assignments that are around
and how you can help them
and what you need to do
and say, “Oh, why don’t they change?”
I mean, you’ve changed a lot
in the last few months;
but remember, they haven’t.
And they survived without you.
So, what’s the key?
Focus on your assignment.
Be zealous, be enthusiastic,
but also be patient.
Yes, have trust in Jehovah
that if you focus on your assignment,
you work hard,
you take up whatever opportunities
come your way along the way,
then you can be sure you will be blessed
because you’re enthusiastic but also patient.